A welcome back.
So this video is continuing with inheritance but we're going to talk about a special case called multiple
inheritance.
But before I even introduce it or explain what it is or how it works I just want to set things up by
saying this is a topic that really I could have left out of the course.
I did some research ahead of time to see if if anyone covered it.
And out of all the big existing Python courses nobody mentioned it.
That doesn't mean that you know I shouldn't cover it or that it's not worth learning but it does show
us that it's not that commonly used and it's not viewed as super important.
But the reason I decided to teach it is one to be thorough but also I think it helps illuminate certain
things that are happening behind the scenes with inheritance to the point of this video is not to show
you something that you'll be using all the time but in showing to you how multiple inheritance works
and some of the things that arise when we implement it it will help you understand how Python works
underneath that you know behind the scenes onto the magic how inheritance is implemented.
And that's all I'll say about it for now.
So with all that said let's talk about it multiple inheritance.
So it's kind of what it sounds like.
We've seen how to have you know one class inherit from another parent class a single parent class and
all we would do is pass something in here like I don't know a person class that wouldn't really make
sense here but the aquatic class now inherits from person.
Well I have an example here now where I have two different classes.
This is a super trivial example.
Modeling animals.
So we have aquatic which each instance just has a name like Jaws or Sharky or Phishy it has a swim method
that returns the name Jaws is swimming or Phishy is swimming and then a great method that returns.
I am self-taught name of the sea.
Then there's a second class called ambulatory ambulatory just means walking.
So kind of the opposite of an aquatic animal although I don't think it actually is the exact opposite.
But in our case it's just another type of animal and ambulatory instances have a name.
Also they have a method called Walk which just returns know self-taught name is walking.
Lassie is walking.
And then they also have a group method.
I am lassy of the land instead of of the sea.
OK.
So these two crosses have nothing to do with one another.
They look kind of similar but they're not connected.
No inheritance.
Then there's a third class town here called penguin and Penguin inherits from both of them.
In this case we pass into classes to inherit from.
So every instance of Penguin which is ambulatory It's a walking animal but it's also aquatic.
So it kind of makes sense in this example but every Penguin has all of these methods from aquatic and
often methods from ambulatory.
And if we look at the net in Penguin It's really really simple.
It just calls super doesn't it.
In a moment we'll explore what super actually referring to.
But before we even get there let's just take a look down here I have three examples where we have Jaws
is equal to an aquatic instance.
Lassie is an ambulatory instance.
And then Captain Cook is a penguin instance and we can do things like well obvious things like Jaws
dot swim or Lassie walk.
But let's play with Captain Cook stew print Captain Cook swim.
And if we run it we get Captain Cook is swimming.
All right.
So that's coming from the aquatic Kleis.
If I do the same thing but this time I do walk that will be coming from the ambulatory class and then
get Captain Cook is walking.
All right.
So that's coming from ambulatory.
So we have proof now that penguin is getting methods from both parent classes.
Now the question is when I called Dot greet on Captain Cook which greet is going to be called and he
guesses we have two.
Both named greet and they do kind of the same thing except one says of the sea and the other says of
the land.
OK.
But see what happens.
And we get.
I am Captain Cook of the land.
So it's calling the version from ambulatory not from aquatic.
And we'll talk about why in just a moment.
There's one other thing I want to point out here already typeless up ahead of time where I'm just using
instance of three different times with Captain Cook to see that is instance Not instance of instance
returns true or false.
If Captain Cook is a penguin It should be true if it's aquatic true ambulatory true.
So we should see three trews and that's indeed what we get.
So this shows you that in Python's mind Captain Cook is an instance of penguin but it's also instance
of aquatic and ambulatory and on top of that it's an instance of base object which we didn't have to
test out here but we saw that earlier.
All right so now let's explore a bit about the order that things are happening in and the next video
is actually going to go into a lot more detail on that.
But for now let's just commentate everything else out here and only focus on Captain Cook when I call
Captain Cook or penguin Captain Cook.
This is run right a nit here in the Superdome.
And it.
So let's kind of trace the path that things are happening and so I'm going to do a print penguin in
it and then appear I'm going to move into the ambulatory unit and type ambulatory in it to make that
all caps.
There we go.
And one more time for aquatic I'll do aquatic in it.
So what do we expect to see when I call super here.
Which version or versions of a nit are actually going to run.
Let's see.
So we only get penguin in it.
That makes sense that's where we started.
We made a new Penguin and then ambulatory in it so aquatic was never called and that order again is
something we'll talk about in the next video and how it's established that the super simple version
is that ambulatory is first.
If we move it after aquatic we now get penguin in it then aquatic in it.
OK.
So again we'll come back that in the next video.
But one thing I want to be super up front about and make very clear we still have access to these methods
in ambulatory and aquatic even if a it never occurs or never run in that particular class because of
this inheritance right here.
Guess I'm going to change it back.
So putting the order that things are running aside let's say that we wanted both nets to execute both
in aquatic and in ambulatory.
I don't know if you can hear that siren but there's an ambulance side right when I'm saying ambulatory.
OK.
Let me edit this out.
Ok I'm back.
So if we want to have both in its run we can actually just manually call them.
So if ambulatory is running we can also just call aquatic dot that will underscore net but remember
if we're not using super We have to pass in self and then we can do name equals name.
Now I should point out this is kind of a bad example.
At this point because name is defined in both places aquatic and ambulatory and you probably wouldn't
want to do that if you had multiple inheritance have the same property to find it more than one place.
So for this example we could change name but I'm going to leave it at this for now but just know that
we're basically redefining name.
OK.
So aquatic dot net self weaved past itself and now we should see all three running and I can do is better
actually to be more explicit.
If we wanted both in my opinion at least it would be better to say ambulatory data it and then aquatic
down to it.
Because if you're using both There's If you're using the word super with multiple inheritance it can
be ambiguous as to what you're referring to.
So my personal preference is to be explicit like this.
And we definitely need to remember to pass in self for not using super And then we still get the same
three and knit prints.
OK.
So that's all that we'll deal with with multiple inheritance for now.
I just want you to see that it is a thing but you could probably already see from the super super simple
example just like one property right or one attribute just a couple of methods that there's confusion
about where the things come from.
And you know what method belongs to what class and and what order things are happening in.
And we'll expand on that in the next video.
But that's kind of the reason that multiple inheritance is not often seen.
It's a bit controversial.
A lot of the times that come Stack Overflow people will you know post some code that uses multiple inheritance
and a lot of the comments will focus on.
You should really refactor this.
You don't need to use multiple inheritance you're just overcomplicating things.
And that's true.
There's no just like there's no NO time you have to use object oriented programming in general.
It's just a tool to help you organize and keep things structured.
There's no time where you absolutely have to use multiple inheritance.
Anyway I just wanted to introduce it to see you know that it's possible in Python you may encounter
it maybe.
I wouldn't count on it but in the next video this example and multiple inheritance will help us understand
the order that methods are resolved.
So that's coming up next.